Ncsdk 18026 bt status service (#9955)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/peripheral_status/README.rst

.. _peripheral_status:

Bluetooth: Peripheral Status
############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The peripheral Status sample demonstrates how to use the :ref:`nsms_readme`.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

.. include:: /includes/tfm.txt

The sample also requires a smartphone or tablet running a compatible application.
The `Testing`_ instructions refer to `nRF Connect for Mobile`_, but you can also use other similar applications (for example, `nRF Toolbox`_).

.. note::
   |thingy53_sample_note|

Overview
********

Sample implements two NSMS instances that results in two NSMS characteristics that describes status of two buttons (button1 and button2).
Each characteristic have name set in Characteristic User Description (CUD) that coresponds to the button whose status is shown.

> Moreover status related to button 2 have configurable security settings.
> When :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_STATUS_SECURITY_ENABLED` is configured status related to button 2 have security enabled thous it can be accessed only when bonded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, status related to **Button 2** has configurable security settings.
When :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_STATUS_SECURITY_ENABLED` is configured, the status related to **Button 2** has security enabled, thus it can be accessed only when bonded.
```

User interface
**************

The user interface of the sample depends on the hardware platform you are using.

Thingy:53
=========

RGB LED:
   The RGB LED channels are used independently to display the following information:

   * Red - If the main loop is running (that is, the device is advertising).

>      The LED blinks with a period of 2 seconds, duty cycle 50%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     The LED blinks with a period of 2 seconds, duty cycle of 50%.
```

   * Green - If the device is connected.

   For example, if Thingy:53 is connected over Bluetooth, the LED color toggles between green and yellow.

>    The green LED channel is kept on and the red LED channel is blinking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The green LED channel is kept on, and the red LED channel is blinking.
```

Button 1:

>    Set "Button 1" NSMS Status Characteristic to: "Pressed" or "Released".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Set Button 1 NSMS Status Characteristic to: "Pressed" or "Released".
```

   Notify the client if notification is enabled.

> Button 2 (the one hidden under cover):
>    Set "Button 2" NSMS Status Characteristic to: "Pressed" or "Released".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Button 2 (the one hidden under the cover):
   Set Button 2 NSMS Status Characteristic to: "Pressed" or "Released".
```

   Notify the client if notification is enabled.

>    By default this service requires connection to be secured to read or notify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   By default, this service requires the connection to be secured to read or notify.
```

Development kits
================

LED 1:

>    Blinks when the main loop is running (that is, the device is advertising) with a period of 2 seconds, duty cycle 50%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Blinks when the main loop is running (that is, the device is advertising) with a period of 2 seconds, duty cycle of 50%.
```

LED 2:
   On when the development kit is connected.

Button 1:

>    Set "Button 1" NSMS Status Characteristic to: "Pressed" or "Released".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Set Button 1 NSMS Status Characteristic to: "Pressed" or "Released".
```

   Notify the client if notification is enabled.

> Button 2 (the one hidden under cover):
>    Set "Button 2" NSMS Status Characteristic to: "Pressed" or "Released".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Button 2 (the one hidden under the cover):
   Set Button 2 NSMS Status Characteristic to: "Pressed" or "Released".
```

   Notify the client if notification is enabled.

>    By default this service requires connection to be secured to read or notify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   By default, this service requires the connection to be secured to read or notify.
```

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/peripheral_lbs`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your dongle or development kit, test it by performing the following steps:

1. Start the `nRF Connect for Mobile`_ application on your smartphone or tablet.
#. Power on the development kit or insert your dongle into the USB port.
#. Connect to the device from the application.
   The device is advertising as ``Nordic_Status``.
   The services of the connected device are shown.

> #. Find **Nordic Status Message Service** by its UUID listed in :ref:`nsms_readme`, read its **Characteristic User Description** to check whose button it relates to.
> #. Read **Nordic Status Message Service** Message characteristic to check initial status - if no button was pressed it should be "Unknown".
> #. Enable notification in the characteristic found above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Find **Nordic Status Message Service** by its UUID listed in :ref:`nsms_readme`.
#. Read its **Characteristic User Description** to check which button it relates to.
#. Read **Nordic Status Message Service** message characteristic to check the initial status - if no button was pressed, it should be "Unknown".
#. Enable notification for the characteristic found.
```

#. Press the related button and observe the message changing between "Pressed" and "Released".

> #. Not thad doing the same for "Button 2" characteristic should require secured connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Note that performing the same for Button 2 characteristic must require a secured connection.
```
